In this section we're going to be developing our put and point put controller in this pitch control
or we're going to be receiving an ID as the PATH variable.
And of course in the requests body we're going to be receiving a product of Geck represented as a Jaisalmer
strain.
And with the idea that we receive from the path we're going to look for the product that we're going
to update and if we find it we're going to update it with the values that we provided within the requests
body.
So let's start developing our controller I'll start by public and product update product and then I'll
fill out our request mapping in our request mapping.
I'm going to say request Methot dot
and of course we're going to be using a path and that path variable is going to be ID.
So it lets they do that now
and what else do we need.
We also need to consume a J-Zone formatted string.
So let's say media type is application underscore Jason underscore well-you.
All right.
In the parameters of our update product method we're going to be receiving a request buddy just as we've
discussed before.
So let's just say that we're going to be getting a request body and request body is going to be a product
object and I'm going to name it product to update so that we can reference that what we're going to
do now we're going to go to our repository and find a product with that ID and then we're going to update
the product.
If we found that product with the ID.
So let's first go to our repository with that ID to do that.
I'm going to say
product found product and product repository that find one and the find one method.
Of course I'm going to be taking ID as the parameter.
So we are also going to need to say that path variable and a variable is going to be named as ID.
And it's going to be a string really.
All right.
And then to find one method.
I'm going to provide this ID.
All right.
Let's check if we can actually find this product in film product is not.
No.
Then we're going to update this product so in this line we found a product so we can update it right
now.
Let's say I found a product that said Name
is going to be product to update get name and then found product that said description is going to be
product to update get description again found product got said type is going to be product to update
and get type found product that said category.
Finally product to update that get category.
All right.
We have successfully updated our product in the code and also we should return the product that we updated.
So to do that I'm simply going to return product that we found within our repository product and in
the else statement I'm going to say a long statement and there is no product found with this ID.
So to do that I'm going to create a lager for our products controller.
So I'm going to say private Logar for s.l 4G and name it as log.
And then I'll go to a local factory 4G and get lager in the local method.
I'm going to provide the controller class.
All right and after that I'm going to go to our L's and LOEG this statement for our status.
So I'll say no products found with given ID just notify the Consul and I can simply return the product
to update.
All right let's test our method in the browser and see what's happening to do that.
I'm going to run our application
Our application is starting up right now
and it's almost crowded up here we go.
Our application is open running so to update a product we should first need to know an idea of a product.
So let's first go to our H-2 Council and move from there.
So I'm going to open up Firefox right now.
I'll go to my H-2 console locals ADHD slash H-2
and I'm going to connect to our database in our database we have a product and this product has this
I.D. So I'm going to use this I.D. within my statement within my put request.
So let's copy that.
And then in a new tab I'm going to go to my Rusk client
and indirect client.
Now we're going to use the put method and the URL for the method is going to be HTP local Haust ADHD
and then of course we're going to provide the remaining part of our base API
and products and after that we're going to be saying that we need to find and update the product with
the given ID.
So I'm pasting my ID here and in the body of course we're going to be providing a J sound string and
in the chase on string I'm going to say
name is going to be
you name
ascription
is going to be updated description
and my type is going to be new type
and finally category is going to be and you category.
All right we have our song string ready.
And the last step before we actually send this request we're going to add Jason to our headers.
So let's go to header's here and a custom header in the custom header as you remember we're going to
use Content-Type And then as well you were going to use applications like Jason.
All right I'll click OK.
And we're now ready to send requests.
So let's test out our method.
If it's ok I'll hit send now.
Here we go.
We have received HTP 200 which is OK and as you can see Content-Type of the returned object is applications
last Jaison.
Now let's take out the response body the roll methods.
And here we go.
We have the idea that we requested return to us that is actually found object within our Depository.
And as you can see we have the new name updated description new type and new category.
And if we check out the highlight tab right next to it we have a beautiful white version of our updated
object update a product to verify that.
Let's just go to our database and see what it looks like.
I'm going to go to my two console and I'm going to create my statement again and I run it.
And we have a problem.
Our object our entity is that updated.
So what's going on.
What is wrong with our code.
Let's go back to intelligence and see what's going on
in our code.
We received an I.D. And with that I.D. We're finding the product that we're going to update and after
we find it we actually set the fields to update it.
But we have missed an important point.
We did and saved a product actually into our repository.
So let's fix this code.
And how is it working back again.
All right.
So in this statement I'm going to say return product repository and say what I'm going to say is the
product that you've found.
All right this should solve our problem and we should now see that the product is updated.
All right.
Let's rerun our application to see that in effect.
Our application is starting out now
and it's almost done.
Here we go.
It started up so I'll switch back to Firefox again.
And I'll go to rest client and I'll make my request again.
As you remember we updated the fields already and we're ready to make request so I'll send a request
now.
Here we go we have 200 again.
And if we go to the highlight tab you'll see that we have all the field that we need.
The ID field is null because in the code we just returned the product that we're going to update credentials
that we use to update.
So the updated credentials are requests but it doesn't have an ID.
So it's no.
But let's take out the database.
The H-2 cancel so that if we could update the product so I'll go to my H2 console and renew the session
and I'm reconnecting to my database again.
Also like my table
Well our product still not update it.
Let's take out what we're missing in this implementation.
And actually what we missed was we forgot to update the ID here because the idea was change when we
already started our application.
So let's fix that and copy our new ID from the database and make a request with it.
So I'll paste the idea that I just copied and I'm ready to send a request.
Here we go.
We have the ID name description type and category all set and of course our response status code is
200.
All right.
Let's check out the actual data in our console.
So I'll recreate our sequel and run it.
Here we go.
We have the same ID with new category with updated description new name.
And of course new type that's easy as that.
Let's go back to our implementation one more time.
And in our implementation what we just use this we used a path variable as ID.
And of course we use the push method always to try to make this request.
And after that we said we're expecting to consume a application underscore Jason underscore well-you.
And that was applications last Jason in our update product method we said we're also expecting a request
body as a product object.
And of course we didn't forgot to get our path variable after we get all the variables all the data
that we need from our request we go to our repository and try to find the product with that given ID
after we find the product.
We're simply setting all the fields with the product that we're going to update.
The one that we sent in the request body.
All right.
And after we finished setting all the parameters all the instance variables were simply saving our product
that we update it all right and otherwise were simply printing out to the console that there is no product
with the given ID and we will simply return the product that we're going to update making a put request
with spring rest is simple as that you provide the method that requoting to use which you request you
provide your request mapping.
You say what you expect with your requests body.
And of course if you need to you can provide a path variable or multiple of them and then you implement
your logic.
That's all there is to know about a to be put with spring rest.
So I'll see you in the next video where we talk about HTP delete with spring rest.